[Music]
how to survive a fall from height when
it seems impossible it's probably no
secret that three to five percent of
people all over the world suffer from an
acute fear of heights
aka acrophobia as for the rest of
humankind it's not an overestimation to
say that for most people falling from a
big height is one of their worst
nightmares but you might feel better if
you learn that there are some tips to
survive even this extreme situation
before you get to know what you should
do if you're falling from a huge height
and there's no parachute to save the day
hit the subscribe button and ring the
notification bell to join us on the
bright side of life serbian flight
attendant vesna vulovic made the
guinness world records after surviving a
fall from an incredible height of 33333
feet without a parachute in 1972 she had
several broken bones but made in almost
complete recovery actually the fact that
she survived was pure luck but if you
combine your luck and your knowledge of
the following tips you might end up as
fortunate as this woman 1 sir press your
panic this is definitely easier said
than done it's next to impossible to
calm down and concentrate when you're
plummeting down at a speed of 100 miles
per hour
however by panicking you'll do nothing
to improve your situation first of all
focus on your breathing inhale through
your nose and exhale through your mouth
this will help clear your mind only if
you manage to calm down will you be able
to find a way to survive to position
your body in the air correctly you can
slightly slow down or fall if you manage
to position yourself flat in the air to
do this spread your body out so that it
looks like the letter X your body should
be in a horizontal position and your
front should face the ground raise your
arms above your head arch your back and
head upward this is the only way you can
somehow hinder
fault on the contrary if you dive toward
the ground headfirst you'll speed up
your fall and minimize the drag this
means that the speed of your fall may
reach up to 260 miles per hour 3 try to
direct your fall either toward a wooded
snowy or marshy area or toward a parking
lot you can slightly alter the direction
of your fall to steer right or left you
need to lower your corresponding elbow
and lean to the side to which you want
to turn to move forward position your
arms at your sides and straighten your
legs if you have to move backwards push
your arms forward and bend your knees if
you land in a forest tree branches will
absorb the impact of your fault
they will also considerably slow down
your descent as a result you won't hit
the ground with as much force marshy
areas and areas covered with snow work
in the same way if you have a choice try
to fall on a hillside its decline will
absorb some of the impact on top of that
your chances of survival will increase
if you manage to land on a car it can
save your life by absorbing some of the
energy of your fault the vehicle will
deform but it will make your landing a
tiny bit smoother if none of the things
mentioned above are in the vicinity aim
for power lines it's not the perfect
option of course but it's still better
than falling on the flat ground power
lines can reduce the impact and absorb
most of the energy from your fall by all
means you should avoid such hard objects
as buildings constructions flat surfaces
and concrete for what to do if you're
going to land in the water if you
realize that your free fall has brought
you toward a body of water and that's
where you're going to land immediately
rearrange your body position yourself
vertically and tighten your muscles you
should be falling feet first with your
arms pressed tightly to your sides and
your feet together if you're falling
headfirst pulled your body straight and
stretch your arms beside your head this
way you'll have more chances of
protecting it from a serious injury at
the same time although water may seem
like a perfect alternative to hitting
the ground
don't let it fool you hitting the
surface of the water at high speed will
be no better than falling on a sidewalk
5 remember the landing stance of a
skydiver if you see that the ground is
closed adjust your body in such a way
that you'll land on your feet that's the
landing stance of skydivers
your feet should be pressed to each
other prepare your knees and hips for a
strong impact at the moment when your
feet touch the ground make sure that
your heels point up the tip of your toes
should come into contact with the ground
first it's crucial to land on your feet
so that your legs will absorb some of
the impact from your landing your legs
can get seriously injured but other
vital organs won't be harmed that much 6
cover your head the most vulnerable
parts of your body are your neck and
head spinal cord and head injuries are
usually life-threatening that's why when
you hit the ground with your feet try to
roll forward this movement will help you
cushion your blow cover the back of your
head and your neck with your hands and
arms if you also tuck in your chin and
bend your neck forward this will create
additional protection for your head
don't think that this is all empty talk
there's a number of examples proving
that people can survive a parachute
failure James Buhl a 31 year old
skydiver from Staffordshire was filming
a stunt in 2009 when something went
terribly wrong he was supposed to land
on the side of a snowy mountain however
owing to a mix-up
he opened his parachute too late as a
result he fell from a height of 6,000
feet and hit the snow at a speed of a
hundred miles per hour thanks to the
snow cushioning his fall mr. bull
survived both the main and reserve
parachutes of Victorious sea leaders a
qualified freefall instructor failed to
open in 2015 when she was skydiving in
Wiltshire she plummeted from a height of
4000 feet but survived because she
landed in a field that had just been
plowed the surface of the field was
unusually soft and this saved mrs.
sillies life in 2006 Michael Holmes fell
from a height of 2 miles after both of
his parachutes the Maine and the reserve
failed to open this experienced skydiver
from Jersey was
to land on a blackberry bush it saved
his life
christine mckenzie a 23 year old south
african skydiver experienced a parachute
failure in august 2004 her reserve
parachute also malfunctioned and
inflated only partially the young woman
was saved by powerlines
she hit them before falling to the
ground since the power of her landing
was partially absorbed by the powerlines
ms mackenzie managed to survive
Joshua Hansen didn't jump with a
parachute he became the victim of a
tragic accident in January 2007 mr.
Hansen ran out of a hotel elevator lost
his balance and fell through a window
he plummeted from 200 feet and hit an
overhanging roof after that he dropped
to the ground but miraculously managed
to land on his feet he had numerous
injuries but lived to tell the tale
sergeant nicholas alcomate a member of
the royal air force jumped from his
plane which caught fire during a battle
in 1944 his parachute had been destroyed
by the fire and the man was plummeting
toward the ground from a height of
18,000 feet in a freefall luckily his
landing was slowed down by deep snow and
trees as a result the pilot didn't have
any serious injuries are you terrified
of enormous heights reveal your fears in
the comments section below remember to
hit the like button share this video
with your friends and subscribe to the
channel to join us on the bright side of
life
[Music]